blog/week-9.md, before:

---
cover: >-
  https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1454923634634-bd1614719a7b?crop=entropy&cs=tinysrgb&fm=jpg&ixid=MnwxOTcwMjR8MHwxfHNlYXJjaHwyfHxwZW9wbGV8ZW58MHx8fHwxNjU0NTczMzg5&ixlib=rb-1.2.1&q=80
coverY: 0
---

# Real People

I don't even know where to start.

We have begun a new phase. Now we're dealing with clients, planning, and negotiation. The kind of stuff you are not taught at school.

During this week, I feel like, I haven't been exposed to a lot of technical knowledge, but whole new experiences and plenty of emotions.

Pretty weird to be honest. But that's fine. Funny how when I think I couldn't be more uncomfortable, this program keeps surprising me more and more.

I'm sorry, but today I don't feel like talking 'bout git, mac problems, optimism bias nor medicine (topics in which I dived a little this week). Next time I may include them, but for now, let me talk about all the other things that are crossing my mind.

### About this week

Each time I sit to write my essay, I begin thinking "this has been a strange week", and this one is not the exception.

As I mentioned earlier, we begun a new phase, which is about developing a project that meets the requirements of a client. I was assigned to a team that will work on a project for Encora itself.

It's been a mess.

Kinda.

Let's say my team and I are working nice together, pretty cool dynamic we have developed. They are nice guys, and I enjoy working with them.

But. There's always a "but".

We just haven't been focusing on the right stuff. We have been wasting a lot of time planning and talking, instead of actually **doing things**. Spent a lot of time&#x20;

After some meetings, we managed to identify two problems:

* We haven't finished discussing some topic and then we jump into another one
* It's hard to remember what was agreed if we don't take any notes

### About Ana Castillo

What? That joke is not funny anymore? Be thankful I didn't choose it as the main title.

Commit message:

GitBook: [#32] Updated Real people essay

blog/week-9.md, after:

---
cover: >-
  https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1454923634634-bd1614719a7b?crop=entropy&cs=tinysrgb&fm=jpg&ixid=MnwxOTcwMjR8MHwxfHNlYXJjaHwyfHxwZW9wbGV8ZW58MHx8fHwxNjU0NTczMzg5&ixlib=rb-1.2.1&q=80
coverY: 0
---

# Real People

I don't even know where to start.

We have begun a new phase. Now we're dealing with clients, planning, and negotiation. The kind of stuff you are not taught at school.

During this week, I feel like, I haven't been exposed to a lot of technical knowledge, but whole new experiences and plenty of emotions.

Pretty weird to be honest. But that's fine. Funny how when I think I couldn't be more uncomfortable, this program keeps surprising me more and more.

I'm sorry, but today I don't feel like talking 'bout git, mac problems, optimism bias nor medicine (topics in which I dived a little this week). Next time I may include them, but for now, let me talk about all the other things that are crossing my mind.

### About this week

Each time I sit to write my essay, I begin thinking "this has been a strange week", and this one is not the exception.

As I mentioned earlier, we begun a new phase, which is about developing a project that meets the requirements of a client. I was assigned to a team that will work on a project for Encora itself.

It's been a mess.

Kinda.

Let's say my team and I are working nice together, pretty cool dynamic we have developed. They are nice guys, and I enjoy working with them.

But. There's always a "but".

We just haven't been focusing on the right stuff. We have been wasting a lot of time planning and talking, instead of actually **doing things**. Spent a lot of time making proposals that get rejected in no time.

After some meetings, we managed to identify two problems:

* We haven't finished discussing some topic and then we jump into another one
* It's hard to remember what was agreed if we don't take any notes

After getting some feedback from the staff, now we know that we are also are failing in communicating effectively with the rest of the team (the client and the staff).&#x20;

We also must stop having so long meetings that often. Actually, I have reached out to some people to make a couple of questions but I haven't had the chance to properly engage in a conversation with them 'cause I've been busy talking with my team.

We still got a lot to learn about this of being agile, but we working on it.

### About Ana Castillo

What? That joke is not funny anymore? Be thankful I didn't choose it as the main title.

Well, the thing is today we had the meeting where we show the deliverables we expect to give to our client. Many things happened. None of them expected I think. Well, kind of. I was just scared of saying something stupid, and kinda sad that we didn't make it as good as I hoped.&#x20;

However, I knew we would have some problems. I mean, I didn't anticipate this meeting to be better that the previous one we had with the staff, but as far as I didn't break in front of everyone, it would alright, right?

Not exactly.

Let's say, I was confused about our scope getting bigger, and not having all the answers that we were supposed to have already, and I didn't know how to manage it. I tried to hide it but...

&#x20;I think I tried to (the opposite of open up) to prevent my emotions from coming out, but it was interpreted as if I was (the opposite of open up) to prevent opinions or questions to come in.

Let me use a metaphor.

I wasn't _not listening_, I was _trying not to scream._

Shit happens. Now I can learn from it I think.

After the staff let me know about this, I became a walking rush of emotions.

_Embarrassment_ and _disappointment_ are the words that have been coming to my mind during these hours, but I'll keep on learning about these feelings as the days pass by I guess.

Carlos told me "pena es robar y que te cachen", and he is right. I certainly made a mistake but that's what this is all about. Finding the details that don't work out. Talking about those uncomfortable things. Healing where it hurts.

I'm sorry this time there aren't any pictures, I guess it represents way better how it is I feel right now.
